# SGP-based Value Above Last Place Average Player Above Replacement (VAL-PAPAR [val-pa·per] has a nice ring to it)

### High-level overview
This directory contains the entirety of all of the work done for the fantasy SGP valuation system I created with the Research folder containing a lot of miscellaneous excels files where data exploration and analysis was performed, while the SGPFantasyWorking folder contains the valuation system excel workbook itself along with some necessary ancillary files containing projections, draft cheatsheets outputted by the system, correlation matrices, etc.  The valution system workbook itself can be found in the excel macro-enabled workbook stored at SGPFantasyWorking/LeagueStatsSGPInvest.xlsm. Included in this workbook is all of the pre-season and weekly rest of the season updated player valuations along with my league's historical data, and this workbook will continued to be improved upon and soon will become outputs from a python script that will ensure that this is periodically updated and so that the computations can be abstracted out and sped up.  It was created in the off-season prior to the 2024 MLB season and contains multiple in-season updates in order to continously drive actionable decisions for my team. 

The crux of this valuation system is that it's based off a popular valuation system called Standing Gain Points, but with a twist: I decided to remove the barrier level stats (the stat level required to actually start gaining SGPs i.e. the average player on the last place team) in order to get a more accurate representation of how many standing points players are actually contributing above the last place team rather than just the raw SGPs used traditionally by SGP practicioners.  Stay tuned to see how it performs in my H2H Each Category 12 Teamer!


### MID-SEASON UPDATE: 
After 14 matchups of the fantasy season (the entire fantasy season is 23 week long matchups) my team is only a single game out of first place at a 100-65-3 and roto-wise the team is first in Runs, Home Runs, RBIs, OBP, and K/BB while in second place in SLUG, SV+HLDS, third in Ks and QS, fourth in WHIP, sixth in ERA, and 12th in SB (Intentionally punting Stolen Bases this season due to the head to head nature of the league, the inconsistency in projection systems catching up to the new rule changes that drastically increased Stolen Bases, and also due to it being the least correlated category and therefore, introduced lone contributors in that category into the viable player pool that if picked up would hamper the other categories).  In terms of ROTO points, those numbers sum up to 119 points, where the 1st place team by the narrow game lead in the standings currently has a ROTO total of 112, and then it drops all the way down to 93 for the third place team.   


## In progress:  
A detailed report of the methodology used and an analysis on the results.  Transition everything to Python for automated web-scraping of real-time data.
